So I say "Split" because this is in fact code for a single large keyboard and I just hopped one PCB to another directly. It can be replicated easily if you have a proper split board with 1/8" though. 

THE FEET
So I bound backspace to my left foot down and space to right foot up and down. You can do this by either:
- wiring sustain pedals to a microntroller (ideally with a 1/4" jack but direct is fine) and using them as keyswitches (wiring is exactly the same, switches be switching), then augmenting that with an AHK script (included)
or
- Using Bome's Midi Translator with your existing sustain inputs from Midi controllers to map backspace to note on for the left pedal CC, and then space to both note on and note off for the right foot. 

I use two matching M-Audio SP2 pedals. I tried another pedal and found it had a different mechanism sort of like a hammer onto a single contact which had some nasty bounce. Debouncing worked but the necessary values were too sluggish. The M-Audio SP2 has two separate contacts at the top and the bottom of the swing which is much more reliable.

"Does it really work though?"
I made it to as fast as my top typing speed (90-105) with considerably less strain before my workload changed and I stopped focusing on typing (editing now, much more mouse heavy). I am confident with more work it could reach 200 WPM and be used for stenotypy. 

Backspace and space are also unfortunately my most common strokes and most likely to mess with home row placement, so with spaces in my word chords and dedicated feet control, a lot of reptitive actions are reduced (I'm looking at you, multiple backspace (and yes, I know about ctrl+bckspc, shut up)). Way fewer strokes are required as well overall, which is great for RSI avoidance.

Worth Mentioning
I am a musician. I play keys (traditionally first and now with a MIDI ortho, the guiboard https://www.reddit.com/r/synthesizers/comments/g1yrzj/piano_schmiano/), guitar, bass, and played drums for a while. THIS IS A HUGE HELP or so I have to think. Limb independence, experience with chords, and hand eye coordination are very useful here.
